README.md, before:

# Conntrack Statistics Exporter

The well known prometheus node exporter exports conntrack metrics off the /proc
pseudo file system. The conntrack module developers consider that surface as
deprecated and provide a CLI tool `conntrack` that shows some interesting
metrics.

Motivation for this exporter was to survey `insert_failed` statistics due to a
race condition in the Linux ipfilter conntrack kernel code. This is a subtle
bug that in some circumstances escalates in high workload scenarios in
Kubernetes clusters and causes drop of initial packets of NATted connections
(both UDP, TCP.) The `insert_failed` statistic correlates with dropped
connections due to this bug.

# Helm Chart

See [Prometheus Community Charts](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/prometheus-conntrack-stats-exporter).
Kudos to @monotek!

## Further information about the conntrack race bug and its effect on Kubernetes

* https://blog.quentin-machu.fr/2018/06/24/5-15s-dns-lookups-on-kubernetes/
* https://tech.xing.com/a-reason-for-unexplained-connection-timeouts-on-kubernetes-docker-abd041cf7e02
* https://www.weave.works/blog/racy-conntrack-and-dns-lookup-timeouts

Commit message:

Log hint if procfs stats is available

README.md, after:

# Conntrack Statistics Exporter

The well known prometheus node exporter exports conntrack metrics off the /proc
pseudo file system. The conntrack module developers consider that surface as
deprecated and provide a CLI tool `conntrack` that shows some interesting
metrics.

Motivation for this exporter was to survey `insert_failed` statistics due to a
race condition in the Linux ipfilter conntrack kernel code. This is a subtle
bug that in some circumstances escalates in high workload scenarios in
Kubernetes clusters and causes drop of initial packets of NATted connections
(both UDP, TCP.) The `insert_failed` statistic correlates with dropped
connections due to this bug.

# Prometheus Node Exporter

Since quite a while now Linux does export conntrack stats via the procfs and
also Prometheus Mode Exporter exports them if available.

This Exporter will emit an log line at start up if the procfs makes the stats
available.

# Helm Chart

See [Prometheus Community Charts](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/prometheus-conntrack-stats-exporter).
Kudos to @monotek!

## Further information about the conntrack race bug and its effect on Kubernetes

* https://blog.quentin-machu.fr/2018/06/24/5-15s-dns-lookups-on-kubernetes/
* https://tech.xing.com/a-reason-for-unexplained-connection-timeouts-on-kubernetes-docker-abd041cf7e02
* https://www.weave.works/blog/racy-conntrack-and-dns-lookup-timeouts
